Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a war, action,
and sci-fi film called “Overlord."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In 1944, during World War two, a squad of
paratroopers is on a mission to destroy a
radio-jamming tower set up by Germans in an
old church.
As the plane nears the target location, Boyce,
a timid soldier, quietly calms himself down
before their descent.
Some squad members include Tibbet, Rosenfeld,
Grunauer, Chase, a photographer, and Ford,
an explosives expert assigned on this mission
after an exemplary performance in his last
mission.
The ride becomes shaky, causing Boyce to drop
his chain; Tibbet grabs it quickly and bullies
him for having a lucky charm.
Boyce’s performance in the army is unsatisfactory,
making the other soldiers in his batch bully
him.
Moments later, Sergeant Rensin, the squad
leader, enters the main area of the aircraft
to set some reminders before they land.
He starts asking questions, and when he reaches
Boyce, he fails to respond.
Boyce’s already low confidence has decreased
even more, but the mission must continue.
Sergeant Rensin gives his final speech to
the soldiers before returning to the cockpit.
Hundreds of planes and ships make their way
to France, and at the moment, all the fighters
could do is wait and hope for the best.
The aircraft starts to rumble, signaling that
airstrikes are happening not so far away.
As they get closer to the location, more explosions
come along their way, but the aircraft manages
to dodge it.
The explosions become worse, and the other
planes alongside them crash.
The sight of it puts the rest of the soldiers
in a state of panic, but the sergeant tries
to calm them down by talking to them.
Bullets from below penetrate through the plane,
causing deaths among the squad members.
The signal light in the plane turns red, which
means that the soldiers are now on standby
to jump out.
Unfortunately, the plane catches fire, and
some of the soldiers fatally fall toward the
back, burning themselves.
Some of the surviving soldiers manage to jump
out of the aircraft after the signal goes
green.
Boyce struggles to compose himself; the whole
situation overwhelms him in ways he has not
experienced before.
The sergeant pushes him out in the open air,
where thousands of bullets are present.
Boyce could see the battlefield in a bird’s
eye view, and he lets the moment sink in that
this is it—this is the day that they have
all been training for.
He falls near a body of water and almost drowns
in the process because he struggles to free
himself from the parachute.
Finally, he gets out of the water and secures
a weapon with him before running to the woods.
On his way to find other soldiers, Boyce finds
the sergeant surrounded and taunted by German
soldiers.
Before attempting to attack and save the sergeant,
Ford comes from behind Boyce to stop him.
Both of the soldiers witness the execution
of their leader, and Ford explains that the
mission must be carried out.
They continue to walk deeper into the woods,
where they hear people approaching.
Surviving soldiers reveal themselves, and
all of them share a moment of joy in their
reunion.
The lot of them continue to advance across
the field, hoping to find more American soldiers.
Unfortunately, one of them missteps and triggers
a landmine, so an explosion goes off, leaving
them injured.
Boyce gains consciousness and walks carefully
to a safe spot.
Survival is their utmost priority at the moment,
but their mission is yet to be done.
The group takes a break from walking and stumbles
upon a dead animal carcass, which they find
hard to identify.
Its bone structure is different from a dog;
Chase hints that the creature is a jackal—
a biblical creature known as hell dogs.
Tibbet dismisses the idea and refuses to believe
in any myth.
A distant noise catches Boyce’s attention,
so he signals the group that something or
someone might be nearby.
They await the footsteps and meet a girl named
Chloe.
She runs in fear of the Americans, but they
catch up and hold her at gunpoint, where she
is forced to lead them to an old church.
Boyce comforts her by saying that she will
not get hurt, but she has no choice but to
help the Americans.
All of them head to the village where the
church is located, and at the entrance, Ford
commands Boyce to keep an eye on Chloe while
they check the premises.
The commotion wakes up Chloe’s neighbor,
Mrs. Lesner, who reports her to the German
guards for being out past curfew.
The guards start to emerge, making Boyce hide
and find a way to be out of their sight while
they inspect Chloe, who manages to talk her
way out.
She lets the group take refuge in her house
while they carry out their mission.
A quick tour of the home is given to the soldiers
just in case they need to hide.
Tibbet hears a noise from a room upstairs,
so he asks Chloe about it.
According to her, her sick aunt lives with
her and cuts the topic short.
She also has a little brother named Paul,
who she takes care of after German soldiers
killed their parents.
The soldiers settle in the tiny attic, where
they gather their weapons and optimize their
plan.
A woman’s scream interrupts their meeting;
the commotion outside is caused by German
soldiers executing one of the village residents
for an unknown reason.
Chloe then explains that the killings have
become a norm in their village since the Germans
have taken over.
She warns the group that they cannot stay
at her place because of frequent inspections,
but Ford says that they only need four hours,
so she agrees.
The group gets into an argument about delaying
the mission, but to their surprise, Boyce
initiates the advance.
In the sergeant's words, he reminds them that
the planes cannot provide air support to the
bases unless they take the tower down.
However, Tibbet continues to bully him, discouraging
the poor soldier that he is not built for
battle.
The angry Tibbet gets interrupted by Paul,
who playfully asks him to have a game of baseball.
He gets more hot-headed, so Chloe explains
that Paul thinks all Americans play baseball,
but he walks away.
Boyce makes his way downstairs after Ford
orders him to.
On his way, he hears Chloe’s aunt coughing
in the room across the hallway, so he checks
and sees a disfigured woman.
Her skin looks wholly burnt, and she looks
terribly ill.
Chloe explains since her aunt returned from
the church, which is the base of the Germans,
she has not spoken since.
She suspects that multiple experiments were
done on her, causing physical and mental trauma.
That night, Tibbet and Chase depart to check
on the German base when the German soldiers
conduct another inspection in the village.
Ford hears it right away, so he and Boyce
decide to stay put in the attic, where Paul
hides as well.
The German commander named Wafner knocks at
Chloe’s door to visit her.
He coerces Chloe for intercourse.
After she refuses to give in, he calls his
men inside to check the attic after hearing
a noise.
Luckily, Paul blocks the entrance, passing
a baseball to the German soldier, who spits
at it, and passes it back to him.
To Boyce and Ford’s relief, the German soldiers
come down after almost catching them.
Wafner threatens to send Chloe to the church
to be “fixed” if she does not make love
with him.
Without a choice, she lets Wafner take advantage
of her with evident disgust on her face.
Boyce cannot ignore this and interrupts Wafner,
who is now held at gunpoint.
Ford is forced to follow suit and assist Boyce
downstairs.
He incapacitates and restrains Wafner, who
is helpless in the current situation.
Ford orders Boyce to move to the church tower,
taking advantage of the night.
Through the woods, Boyce makes his way to
a nearby entrance to wait for the perfect
time to enter.
He sees a truck full of people with disfigured
bodies who are almost on the brink of death.
A project that experiments on humans for warfare
is orchestrated by Dr. Schmidt, the head of
the experimentation on French civilians and
dead German soldiers.
He goes to the site to see the “failed tests”
get burned using a flamethrower.
Confused about the intentions behind the experiments,
Boyce goes on to conduct the mission and walks
through the dark forest.
A truck of German soldiers passes by, making
him hide on the side of the road.
An aggressive dog emerges from the dark and
starts growling at him; it eventually chases
him, leaving him no choice but to enter the
truck.
Boyce climbs the truck only to find dead soldiers
piled up, so he panics as he covers himself
with a lifeless body on top.
They arrive at the church, and two soldiers
unload the truck.
This bids Boyce some time to sneak out and
make his way through the tower.
Surrounded by the enemies, every step he takes
is crucial, as one mistake could cost him
his life.
He arrives at an underground section of the
church, which looks like a prison.
He hears muffled noises of people bound in
small cells and hides as two inspectors arrive.
Curious about the eerie sound coming from
the cell, he peeks at it and sees a human
and creature hybrid.
Meanwhile, Tibbet and Chase safely make it
back to Chloe’s home.
Boyce goes further into the experiment labs
to get more answers about the questionable
creatures.
A body bag moves right above him, so he opens
it and sees a person drenched in serum, who
is barely alive.
He then sees syringes laid on a table and
gets one to bring a sample to Ford.
He suspects that the red liquid serum is responsible
for the disfiguration of the bodies that he
saw.
Not far from where he stands, he hears a voice
asking for help; willing to find out, Boyce
opens a curtain and sees a bodiless head asking
for help.
Horror fills his face because it seems too
difficult to believe.
He leaves and discovers that Rosenfeld is
bound to a bed, which he tries to free but
gets interrupted once German doctors arrive.
He sees a dead soldier being injected with
the serum, but it is ineffective, so they
dispose of his body.
Boyce pulls a massive needle out of Rosenfeld
to save and free him.
Both of them utilize a tomb to find their
way out of the church, which they are successful
at.
They arrive at the house, where Boyce finally
breaks down after holding his emotions inside
the church.
Ford struggles to understand the words he
is saying and realizes that Boyce has shifted
his attention from the mission to the experiments.
He shows Ford the serum, and they ask Wafner
about it, but he does not disclose any helpful
information, even as Ford tortures him.
Wafner is in a helpless situation, but he
remains loyal to his roots, making Ford more
aggressive.
Boyce tries to stop him, but he gets hurt
in the process, making him walk out of the
room.
As the squad prepares to attack the church,
Chase checks on Wafner, who attempts to escape
and fatally shoots him after acting unconscious.
Still, with a sack over his head, he blindly
shoots around, but he is stopped after the
group comes up.
Before losing his final breath, Chase asks
for his camera, and all of them dramatically
witness his death.
Boyce gets into the idea of injecting the
serum into Chase, thinking that it would save
him.
In a matter of minutes, Chase gets up and
is in prime condition.
He even pokes his bullet wounds and is numb
from the pain.
Additionally, he gets stronger after the injection,
which confuses everyone in the room.
After some time, Chase mutates; his body slowly
disfigures, and he turns violent.
His eyes turn red as if he is about to transfer
into something before Ford shoots him several
times.
Wafner then reveals that the serum can turn
dead soldiers into mutated ones, turning them
zombie-like.
As they discuss this, Chase gets up; before
he could attack anyone, Boyce knocks him to
the ground and pounds his head to death.
The commotion makes the perfect time for Wafner
to escape unnoticed.
He comes down from the attic and grabs Paul
upon his exit.
A group of German soldiers comes to his rescue
and takes Paul hostage.
Chloe helplessly chases the army vehicle but
is unable to, so she runs to Boyce for some
help.
Willing to help Chloe get her brother back,
he refuses to follow orders from Ford, saying
that their mission is more than just burning
the church tower but also putting an end to
the human experiments.
Ford hesitantly agrees to the plan after being
assured by Boyce that he can lead the group
inside the church.
In the church, Wafner arrives with the little
boy and rushes to the lab as their first stop.
Thinking that it would heal his wounds in
an instant, Wafner injects the serum into
him, despite the doctor stopping him.
According to Dr. Schmidt, the serum has never
been injected into the living, uncertain of
the effects it would have on Wafner.
Wafner takes two doses of the serum and lets
out a hideous screech as his bones crack for
no reason.
He reveals to the people in the room that
he has regained his strength, even though
half of his face is blown off because of the
shootout earlier.
A sinister look comes from him without any
sign of pain.
Meanwhile, they plan their entrance to the
church in a secluded part of the woods.
They assign tasks to everyone who will split
up during their mission.
To initiate it, Chloe shows herself to the
German soldiers, who chase her across town.
They attempt to shoot her, but she successfully
runs through the forest, pursued by one soldier
to a nearby bridge.
The soldier, thinking that he has cornered
Chloe, gets off his bike to physically attack
and force himself on her.
However, upon being beaten down to the ground,
Chloe lets out a laugh, then Ford knocks the
soldier down.
Next, they use the soldier that they strapped
with explosives to make their way into the
church.
After the explosion injures several other
soldiers, Rosenfeld and Tibbet launch a frontal
assault as a distraction, while Ford, Boyce,
and Chloe enter the base using the sewers.
This causes a massive commotion inside the
base, as the soldiers are alerted that they
are under attack by a small group of Americans.
Inside, Boyce and Ford carry out their mission
to rig the place, while Chloe refuses to wait
and runs to look for Paul.
In a hallway, she holds two soldiers at gunpoint
and shoots one of them after failing to disclose
her brother's whereabouts.
The group’s intentions become more desperate,
resulting in them acting more violently toward
their enemy.
In the communication room, Ford stabs a soldier
in the neck from behind to set timers as part
of the plan to blow up the place.
Underground, the soldier brings Chloe to the
dens to mislead her that her brother is in
there.
He opens a cell, and she finds half a body
lying on the floor.
Luckily, Boyce gets to Chloe before she gets
shot by the German soldier.
Upon leaving, they see the zombie drag the
soldier inside the cell to devour him.
Both of them could not fathom what they saw,
but with time as their enemy, they rushed
to continue to find Paul.
As discreet as possible, they make it to the
lab, where after some time, Paul calls for
Chloe’s name.
She reunites with her brother, and they find
their way to the exit.
However, a mutated zombie drags Chloe back
into the room.
Paul escapes back to the village while Chloe
distracts the zombie, shooting and fighting
it.
She manages to hit it after being attacked
by it, but the wounds seem ineffective to
slow it down.
The zombie chases her across the hallway,
but she eventually finds one of the flamethrowers
and burns the zombie to death with it.
Wafner, now mutated and possessing superhuman
strength, discovers Ford planting explosives
in the radio tower.
He knocks him down and is planning something
sinister.
Meanwhile, as Boyce plants explosives in the
central part of the lab, Dr. Schmidt holds
a gun to his head and orders him to follow
his orders.
But, with all his strength, he attacks the
doctor back, and they have a brawl.
Dr. Schmidt attempts to knife Boyce, but he
is unsuccessful and gets killed instead.
Chloe returns to the village, where Tibbet
and Rosenfeld have been pursued and pinned
down by the base's defenders.
The shootout lasts for some time until Paul
runs into the middle of the battlegrounds.
Out of concern for the young boy's safety,
Tibbet is wounded while shielding Paul from
gunfire.
Finally, he safely brings Paul back to a shielded
area, as Chloe ambushes and kills the remaining
Germans and treats Tibbet's wounds.
In another part of the base, Wafner overpowers
Ford, who he throws around the room before
impaling him on a meat hook.
He reveals to Ford that the serum was made
by using the villagers' bodies to distill
the ancient power of the black tar, which
had been running under the village for centuries.
The experiments aim to create immortal and
invincible soldiers to serve Germany’s mission.
Boyce, who had previously finished planting
explosives in the laboratory, ambushes Wafner
but gets thrown away across the room.
The zombie-like Wafner opens compartments
that contain bodies of fallen soldiers injected
with the serum.
In the middle of this, Ford pulls himself
off the meat hook and injects himself with
a dose of the serum to heal his wounds instantly.
Aware of the consequences, he sacrifices himself
to stop Wafner and stab him from behind.
Both of them recklessly fight each other as
their bodies continue to disfigure in the
process.
Although Ford cannot defeat him, he manages
to roll an oxygen tank to Wafner's feet, which
Boyce then shoots; the explosion sends Wafner
falling into the tar pit right at that moment.
Boyce approaches their leader to help him
get up, but Ford locks himself inside upon
passing by the exit.
He orders Boyce to leave him behind and detonate
the explosives in the tower, believing neither
side should possess the serum.
After some convincing, Boyce follows his instructions
just before Ford sets off the explosives in
the lab, killing himself, the other zombies,
and Wafner, who had mutated further and climbed
out of the tar pit.
Boyce sets a timer on the explosives and escapes
in the communications room as the church and
jamming tower collapse behind him, burying
the laboratory and the rest of the building.
The rest of the villagers gather outside as
the radio announces the victory of the allied
forces in the war.
Boyce reunites with Tibbet, Rosenfeld, Chloe,
and Paul in the village and sadly informs
them that Ford did not make it.
After the action wears off gradually, Boyce
reports to a commanding officer about the
mission.
He credits Ford for being the reason for their
success.
The commanding officer asks Boyce about rumors
of an underground lab in the church.
Boyce, sharing Ford's view, denies seeing
anything worth digging up.
He now believes that the zombies and the human
experiments should be kept unknown, or else
more people will suffer the same fate as failed
test subjects.